We've gotten to a point where it's not clear what we should do next. Up until now we've just been implementing basic features we expect the final product would have. And we've got most of them now. So... what next? I think it's time to think of some kind of story. I don't think we should be trying to do any kind of crazy new mechanics. Let's stick to good old fashioned walk around and hit stuff. Zelda style. Maybe we'll change it up and let the player get projectiles or something. Ooh, maybe I should add blocking in this as well. We'll think about it, but IMO that's not as important right now. What we need is a compelling narrative, and a reason to write music!

First thoughts, for some reason I am just super into the idea of monsters eating people, and that's the whole theme of the game. There's a goddamn monster that's gonna eat you, or at the very least it'll eat characters you care about. What we could do is start it off as people randomly disappearing in the night, or maybe sheep? We haven't even talked about the time period or setting of this thing. Tbh I was thinking fantasy medieval. A small village of people surrounded by a forest, maybe some mountains, I dunno. We don't want to get too huge in scale or we'll never finish the damn thing. 

Just to kinda get my mental space down on paper, I have this image in my mind of starting the game in a cabin at night, and you have to go check on a disturbance of some kind. Maybe someone's dog disappeared. As the player character you'd be tasked with exploring the country side to find to seek out... um, stuff. And people/animals keep disappearing. Eventually you finally are confronted with the monster, and we're totally going to make this like a shock value thing. I don't want to be too gory, but wouldn't it be scary if it totally had blood dripping from its mouth, and up till that point the game had been very cutsey. 

Hmmm... but the basic game mechanic is hitting stuff, so what are we hitting? Is this some super peaceful place and monster have invaded it? Or has it always been fairly dangerous? 

Honestly, we could probably just be lazy and have monsters around, and not explain it. I never questioned it while playing zelda games, or any game for that matter. 

I have a dumb idea for a twist. You wake up in the forest, alone. A dialog box informs you that you're hungry, better go find food. You fight your way through the forest (the tutorial section), to get to the village where you learn that something has been taking animals away in the night. And it's believed they are being eaten. Lol, surprise, it's you. But you don't know that until later. We could give subtle hints, like that you keep finding food and never actually eating it. I dunno. 

I should reflect on the emotional impact of games, and what is actually important, and what is not. I have played games that tried to railroad me into some epic moment, but in reality that's just annoying. Often a strong sense of purpose, good mechanics, and awesome music are the best ingredients for great gameplay. At least for my tastes. Big reveals for the player character have not hit me as hard as big reveals for NPC characters in the game. In general, big reveals are not as powerful as big moments. Sometimes the reveal wasn't built up correctly. In Undertale, for example, I immediately began without killing any monsters and had every intention of finishing without killing anyone. But I didn't understand how to not-kill the veggie guy, so I gave up. In the big reveal, I didn't feel ashamed like I'm pretty sure you're supposed to, I felt tricked! In Halo CE, the flood reveal meant literally nothing at the time. What made that game special to me was the slow burn of realizing how bad things were getting. I'd say the most powerful moment for me was trying to reach captain keys while all hell is breaking lose between the covenant and the flood. 

I should mention the section of Bioshock Infinite where you ride the claw hooks away from the bird tower. That was a scripted railroad sequence, but it was awesome. I think railroading can work sometimes, but must be done carefully. For our purposes, let's steer clear of it. I don't think we understand it yet.

In my head, I'm totally stuck on the idea of a village in the forest. I don't know why. Lol, that's where my head was for the start of the last game too. 

Ok, here it is, this is what we're going to go with. You're dropped off by a wagon at the entrance to a forest. With no path other than into the forest, the player enters. There are some measly tutorial things. Open a chest. Get a key. Open a door. Read some signs. Then you'll stumble upon a robe dangling from a tree. The player will take it, and suddenly the get their first magic spell in an epic Elsa style sequence. This magic spell allows them to progress through the forest to a little village. There the player can talk to people and learn more about the surrounding areas, and where they might find even more magic power. 

Lol, changed my mind again. I can't draw wagons (specifically, I can't draw the driver of the wagon). How about instead, you start just waking up at a modest campsite in the forest. Story is the same from there. But I have another idea. We want little dialog boxes to tell the player what they can and can't do. And sometimes, even what they should and shouldn't. This is common in games, but we could totally change things around to a twist that reveals the dialog boxes are some evil voice telling you what to do. Maybe the wizard robes are sort of like the one right? Or like the voice of palpatine? 

Should we start in a terrible wasteland instead? Like rocks and dead trees? 

I have a new story idea... Start with a text crawl: The world is filled with terrible vampire like monsters (maybe literally just vampires). Vampires roam the countryside. Roads are no longer safe. The kingdom's military might is severely weakened by the vampire plague. And worst of all, the vampire king has announced his plan to take control of the mortal realm. Many are weak and unable to fight back. Food is becoming scarce. Can a hero rise to save the world?

Cut to a dingy cave. You're character awakens next to a small fire. A dialog box informs you you're hungry, on the brink of starving. Tutorial thing to show you how to attack (bushes block cave exit or something). Make your way around a wasteland like area. Rocks and dead trees. Dead soldiers all over the place. Checking them informs you they've been dead a while, and they have no food on them. Finally get to a clearing with a dying man. He can barely speak. He'll need medical attention quickly.. when suddenly a giant monster bursts out of the wall near you. Mini boss battle! You kill it and more keep coming. You kill them all! You turn your attention back to the man and... he's dead. But, he has a bag of fresh fruit on him! The game asks you if you want to eat?

And unfortunately... you do. You toss the bag of fruit aside, and consume human flesh. The screen goes black to indicate time jump. We return to you having just finished. A dialog box informs you you're deeply ashamed. The wall the mini boss broke leads to town. That's where you'll go next. 

I like this idea. The reason I like it is because the main game mechanic is plain old combat, which I'm pretty sure we can do well, but gives us a means to have an interesting narrative. I hope anyway.